[Music]
black families to keep secrets oh I
think black families keep secrets a
keeping secrets it's a part of our
historical experience in this culture
when you didn't tell people what was
going on because you never know when
they would report it to the overseer to
the slave master and you think really
get in a lot of trouble and I think it's
just kind of a cellular memory within us
that you just don't tell because it puts
you in danger doesn't service at all
today but until we learn a new way of
being and until we learn that we really
can speak about who we are and how we
feel and what's going on we will just
continue to perpetuate the behavior
that's familiar human beings regardless
of race or or or origin or you know
economic status human beings do what's
familiar it becomes habitual and and so
it doesn't serve us but we got to learn
a new habit well help black men again I
believe this is just life according to
Alma pay me no mind black men I believe
have a cellular memory of hiding their
pain you you you know you couldn't be
smart you couldn't be honest you
couldn't be strong you couldn't be
powerful and so and then to admit that
you weren't those things also put you in
jeopardy so I think many men today of
color african-american men Caribbean
American men Native
American men they just don't have the
mmm imprint and the cellular memory of
what it's like to say help me I need
help so I watched the Terrell Owens
episode and I was just I was floored by
there was so much going on what do you
think allowed both him and his father to
be so open mm-hmm well in the Terrell
Owens episode initially his father was
not open his father said he did not want
to participate however he lived directly
across the street from the house that
Terrell was born in and I was not gonna
allow Terrell to be dishonored in that
way that he came back out of his life to
come home to heal and his father's gonna
sit on the porch and watch it and not
participate I just helped him I just
provided him with an opportunity to
support his son and and I think Terrell
the pain he was experiencing was greater
than his fear of being exposed you know
the father is old-school
he's just an old-school man out of
Alabama never would have even dawned on
him to speak out in the world and say I
had an affair that produced the son and
I need to claim my son never dawned on
it and the women in that family
community story who were in a collusion
of silence to protect the man and in the
process damaged a child who happened to
be terrible a little bit like a more
personal question do you ever take you
ever find that you take the people you
work with their problems home no no no I
never take them home I never take them
home because most of what I see
I've already healed because it's only
one of three things somebody's not
feeling loved I feel that somebody's not
feeling heard or seen
and they're acting out I feel bad and
somebody hasn't forgiven I do that every
day forgiveness every day I forgive me
I'll forgive you I forgive you know the
people that cut me off on the Beltway
forgiveness is my daily minimum
requirement you know my initials are Ivy
like you know intravenous and that's
forgiveness as my daily ivy
[Music]